## 2. CIC IDS 2018: The successor of the CIC IDS 2017 [Refer](https://www.unb.ca/cic/datasets/ids-2018.html)
<br>[CICIDS2017 dataset](https://www.unb.ca/cic/datasets/ids-2017.html) contains benign and the most up-to-date common attacks, which resembles the true real-world data (PCAPs). It also includes the results of the network traffic analysis using CICFlowMeter with labeled flows based on the time stamp, source, and destination IPs, source and destination ports, protocols and attack (CSV files).</br>
<br>In CSE-CIC-IDS2018 dataset, we use the notion of profiles to generate datasets in a systematic manner, which will contain detailed descriptions of intrusions and abstract distribution models for applications, protocols, or lower level network entities. These profiles can be used by agents or human operators to generate events on the network. Due to the abstract nature of the generated profiles, we can apply them to a diverse range of network protocols with different topologies. Profiles can be used together to generate a dataset for specific needs.</br>
* B-profiles: Encapsulate the entity behaviours of users using various machine learning and statistical analysis techniques (such as K-Means, Random Forest, SVM, and J48). The encapsulated features are distributions of packet sizes of a protocol, number of packets per flow, certain patterns in the payload, size of payload, and request time distribution of a protocol. The following protocols will be simulated in our testbed environment: HTTPS, HTTP, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, SSH, and FTP. Based on our initial observations majority of traffic is HTTP and HTTPS.

* M-Profiles: Attempt to describe an attack scenario in an unambiguous manner. In the simplest case, humans can interpret these profiles and subsequently carry them out. Idealistically, autonomous agents along with compilers would be employed to interpret and execute these scenarios.
